William Parente

AboutAbout
Senior developer with over 10 years of experience in technology and 6 years as a freelancer. I have completed more than 100 fullstack projects focused on automations, integrations, and developing portals and reports for access control systems. I use technologies such as .NET Core and Framework (C#), SQL Server and Oracle, AWS and Azure, ReactJS, and AngularJS.

I have worked in small and large companies, both national and multinational, and internationally, in the areas of access control, banking, and agribusiness. Currently, I am working part-time on geolocation systems for the USA.

Technical Skills:

SQL Server: 10 years
.NET: 8 years
ReactJS: 5 years
Angular: 4 years
Oracle Database: 3 years
Azure: 3 years
AWS: 3 years
DDD (Domain-Driven Design): 5 years
Messaging Systems: 3 years
Microservices: 2 years
Educational Background:

Bachelor’s degree in Automation Engineering from UFABC
MBA in Fullstack Development from FIAP
Microsoft MCSD Certification


Experience
DoneStreet logo
Senior Fullstack Developer
Senior Fullstack Developer
DoneStreet · Part-timeDoneStreet · Part-time
Jun 2023 - Present · 2 yrsJun 2023 to Present · 2 yrs
Canadá · RemoteCanadá · Remote
Consultant working on the Coordinate Solutions project as a senior full-stack developer in various Geographic Information Systems for the state governments of the USA. I am involved in the development of new features and bug resolution in backend projects using .NET (C#) and FrontEnd in ASP .NET or React, along with SQL Server as the database.

Tech skills: .NET 6, ASP .NET, React, Redux, SQL Server, JSON schema, Jira, Github, Javascript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, WPF, MVC, Rest API, SOAP, Git e Scrum.
Consultant working on the Coordinate Solutions project as a senior full-stack developer in various Geographic Information Systems for the state governments of the USA. I am involved in the development of new features and bug resolution in backend projects using .NET (C#) and FrontEnd in ASP .NET or React, along with SQL Server as the database. Tech skills: .NET 6, ASP .NET, React, Redux, SQL Server, JSON schema, Jira, Github, Javascript, HTML, CSS, JQuery, WPF, MVC, Rest API, SOAP, Git e Scrum.
Skills: .NET 6 · ASP.NET · Visual Basic .NET · Microsoft SQL Server · JSON · GitHub · JavaScript · HTML5 · CSS · React.js · JQuery · ASP.NET MVC · SOAP · API REST · Git · Scrum · JIRA
Skills: .NET 6 · ASP.NET · Visual Basic .NET · Microsoft SQL Server · JSON · GitHub · JavaScript · HTML5 · CSS · React.js · JQuery · ASP.NET MVC · SOAP · API REST · Git · Scrum · JIRA
Microentrepreneur (Freelancer)
Microentrepreneur (Freelancer) 
Microentrepreneur (Freelancer) 
WP IT Solutions · FreelanceWP IT Solutions · Freelance
Aug 2018 - Present · 6 yrs 10 mosAug 2018 to Present · 6 yrs 10 mos
Sao Paulo · RemoteSao Paulo · Remote
• Own and operate consulting practice providing end-to-end software development and consulting services for US and Brazilian clients
• Architect and implement integrations across diverse industries including access control, finance, service delivery, and e-commerce
• Developed e-commerce platform integration with logistics system using Azure Functions, improving order fulfillment efficiency by 40%
• Built parameterizable integrations following best development practices for reuse across client implementations
• Created web-based visitor portal for access control systems using .NET Core and Angular
• Integrated port facilities' access control systems with federal revenue portal using .NET services and SQL Server
Manage full software development lifecycle from requirements gathering to deployment and maintenance

Key Projects:
• Access Control Integration - Developed a .NET-based system integrating with Brazilian Federal Revenue (Siscomex) via REST APIs.
• Visitor Management Portal - Created a React/Redux + .NET Core web app for visitor registration and approval.
• Custom System Integrations - Designed reusable integration patterns for multi-client solutions
• E-commerce Logistics Integration - Built serverless integration using Azure Functions to connect Wake e-commerce platform with Braspress shipping API, enabling real-time freight calculation and order tracking.

Tech skills: C#, .NET Core, .NET Framework, JavaScript, Node.js, React, Redux, Angular, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, T/SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle Database, NoSQL, MongoDB, Redis, RabbitMQ, Kafka, Microservices, DDD, Clean Architecture, EF Core, Dapper, SignalR, Serilog, Fluent Validation, MediatR, Azure DevOps, Azure Functions, XUnit, Git, Scrum, Kanban.
• Own and operate consulting practice providing end-to-end software development and consulting services for US and Brazilian clients • Architect and implement integrations across diverse industries including access control, finance, service delivery, and e-commerce • Developed e-commerce platform integration with logistics system using Azure Functions, improving order fulfillment efficiency by 40% • Built parameterizable integrations following best development practices for reuse across client implementations • Created web-based visitor portal for access control systems using .NET Core and Angular • Integrated port facilities' access control systems with federal revenue portal using .NET services and SQL Server Manage full software development lifecycle from requirements gathering to deployment and maintenance Key Projects: • Access Control Integration - Developed a .NET-based system integrating with Brazilian Federal Revenue (Siscomex) via REST APIs. • Visitor Management Portal - Created a React/Redux + .NET Core web app for visitor registration and approval. • Custom System Integrations - Designed reusable integration patterns for multi-client solutions • E-commerce Logistics Integration - Built serverless integration using Azure Functions to connect Wake e-commerce platform with Braspress shipping API, enabling real-time freight calculation and order tracking. Tech skills: C#, .NET Core, .NET Framework, JavaScript, Node.js, React, Redux, Angular, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, T/SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle Database, NoSQL, MongoDB, Redis, RabbitMQ, Kafka, Microservices, DDD, Clean Architecture, EF Core, Dapper, SignalR, Serilog, Fluent Validation, MediatR, Azure DevOps, Azure Functions, XUnit, Git, Scrum, Kanban.
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · Bootstrap · Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · ASP.NET MVC · HTML5 · Microsoft Windows · Inglês · ASP.NET Web API · MySQL · Scrum · Git · PL/SQL · Entity Framework · Definição de requisitos · Oracle Database · .NET 6 · C# · AngularJS · Full-Stack Development · CSS · Docker · .NET Core · Dapper (ORM) · ASP.NET · Azure · .NET Framework · React.js · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JQuery · Azure DevOps · JavaScript
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · Bootstrap · Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · ASP.NET MVC · HTML5 · Microsoft Windows · Inglês · ASP.NET Web API · MySQL · Scrum · Git · PL/SQL · Entity Framework · Definição de requisitos · Oracle Database · .NET 6 · C# · AngularJS · Full-Stack Development · CSS · Docker · .NET Core · Dapper (ORM) · ASP.NET · Azure · .NET Framework · React.js · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JQuery · Azure DevOps · JavaScript
Pasquali Solution logo
Senior Fullstack Developer
Senior Fullstack Developer
Pasquali Solution · Full-timePasquali Solution · Full-time
Aug 2023 - Jul 2024 · 1 yrAug 2023 to Jul 2024 · 1 yr
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil · RemoteSão Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil · Remote
As a consultant in the agribusiness sector for Bayer, I played a pivotal role in the Manufacturing Execution System project. I highlight my significant contribution to migrating services from the .NET Framework to the latest version, .NET 6. During this transition, I led the migration of one of the Worker Services, the adaptation of communication via RabbitMQ, and the integration with external applications using the SOAP protocol. Currently, I am involved in the Valora project, where I play a crucial role in bug resolution, the development of new features, and the creation of relevant documentation. This project stands out for using ETLs in AWS, leveraging resources such as Athena, Glue Jobs, and Lambda. Additionally, the application features a visualization interface developed using Streamlit in conjunction with Python, providing an efficient and intuitive user experience.

Tech skills: .NET 6, SQL Server, RabbitMQ, Worker Service, SOAP, Azure DevOps, Github, Python, Streamlit, AWS, Athena, Glue Jobs, AWS Lambda.
As a consultant in the agribusiness sector for Bayer, I played a pivotal role in the Manufacturing Execution System project. I highlight my significant contribution to migrating services from the .NET Framework to the latest version, .NET 6. During this transition, I led the migration of one of the Worker Services, the adaptation of communication via RabbitMQ, and the integration with external applications using the SOAP protocol. Currently, I am involved in the Valora project, where I play a crucial role in bug resolution, the development of new features, and the creation of relevant documentation. This project stands out for using ETLs in AWS, leveraging resources such as Athena, Glue Jobs, and Lambda. Additionally, the application features a visualization interface developed using Streamlit in conjunction with Python, providing an efficient and intuitive user experience. Tech skills: .NET 6, SQL Server, RabbitMQ, Worker Service, SOAP, Azure DevOps, Github, Python, Streamlit, AWS, Athena, Glue Jobs, AWS Lambda.
Skills: Microsoft SQL Server · RabbitMQ · .NET 6 · SOAP · Azure DevOps · Python · GitHub · AWS Glue · AWS Lambda · Amazon Web Services
Skills: Microsoft SQL Server · RabbitMQ · .NET 6 · SOAP · Azure DevOps · Python · GitHub · AWS Glue · AWS Lambda · Amazon Web Services
Aubay Portugal logo
Senior .NET Developer
Senior .NET Developer
Aubay Portugal · Full-timeAubay Portugal · Full-time
Feb 2022 - Apr 2023 · 1 yr 3 mosFeb 2022 to Apr 2023 · 1 yr 3 mos
Lisboa, Portugal · RemoteLisboa, Portugal · Remote
 helped me get this job
LinkedIn helped me get this job
Engagement in the Millennium BCP client project, the largest Portuguese bank. In this project, I worked on the account opening application and as part of the backend development team, contributing to the development of new features and bug resolution. The application employed a microservices architecture built on .NET 6, utilizing Kafka for internal communication between services, and Soap and Rest API for interaction with external services. For local testing, Docker is employed, and Redis is used for caching. Additionally, Scrum management and the implementation of the CI/CD pipeline are carried out through Azure DevOps.

Tech skills: .NET 6, C#, Microservices, Kafka, Web Api, Soap, Git, Redis, Docker, Azure Devops, Scrum e Git.
Engagement in the Millennium BCP client project, the largest Portuguese bank. In this project, I worked on the account opening application and as part of the backend development team, contributing to the development of new features and bug resolution. The application employed a microservices architecture built on .NET 6, utilizing Kafka for internal communication between services, and Soap and Rest API for interaction with external services. For local testing, Docker is employed, and Redis is used for caching. Additionally, Scrum management and the implementation of the CI/CD pipeline are carried out through Azure DevOps. Tech skills: .NET 6, C#, Microservices, Kafka, Web Api, Soap, Git, Redis, Docker, Azure Devops, Scrum e Git.
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · ASP.NET Web API · Scrum · Git · .NET 6 · C# · Docker · .NET Core · Azure DevOps
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · ASP.NET Web API · Scrum · Git · .NET 6 · C# · Docker · .NET Core · Azure DevOps
ASSA ABLOY Brasil logo
 Software Development Consultant
 Software Development Consultant
ASSA ABLOY Brasil · Full-timeASSA ABLOY Brasil · Full-time
Apr 2021 - Jan 2022 · 10 mosApr 2021 to Jan 2022 · 10 mos
Diadema, São Paulo, BrasilDiadema, São Paulo, Brasil
Engagement with development teams from various parts of the world, primarily Canada and the United States; Application development in WPF and MVVM for the migration of the database from the older version of the access control software to the latest version; Windows service development for the integration of two facial recognition devices and one biometric device via Rest API and SDK into the Vault Next system; Development of a web API to receive access data from the devices; Support for existing applications.

Tech skill: .Net 5, C#, React, javascript, HTML, CSS, WPF, WebApi, Worker Service, MVVM, MVC, DDD, Git, Scrum, Jira, RabbitMQ, SQL Server, EFCore, Microservice, Azure.
Engagement with development teams from various parts of the world, primarily Canada and the United States; Application development in WPF and MVVM for the migration of the database from the older version of the access control software to the latest version; Windows service development for the integration of two facial recognition devices and one biometric device via Rest API and SDK into the Vault Next system; Development of a web API to receive access data from the devices; Support for existing applications. Tech skill: .Net 5, C#, React, javascript, HTML, CSS, WPF, WebApi, Worker Service, MVVM, MVC, DDD, Git, Scrum, Jira, RabbitMQ, SQL Server, EFCore, Microservice, Azure.
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · Bootstrap · Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · ASP.NET MVC · HTML5 · Microsoft Windows · Inglês · ASP.NET Web API · MySQL · Scrum · Entity Framework · Definição de requisitos · C# · Full-Stack Development · CSS · Docker · .NET Core · Dapper (ORM) · ASP.NET Core · Azure · React.js · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JQuery · JavaScript
Skills: REST (Transferência de estado representacional ) · Bootstrap · Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · ASP.NET MVC · HTML5 · Microsoft Windows · Inglês · ASP.NET Web API · MySQL · Scrum · Entity Framework · Definição de requisitos · C# · Full-Stack Development · CSS · Docker · .NET Core · Dapper (ORM) · ASP.NET Core · Azure · React.js · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JQuery · JavaScript
Itaú Unibanco logo
Itaú Unibanco
Itaú Unibanco
Full-time · 2 yrs 9 mosFull-time · 2 yrs 9 mos
Developer
Developer
May 2020 - Apr 2021 · 1 yrMay 2020 to Apr 2021 · 1 yr
São Paulo, BrasilSão Paulo, Brasil
Work with development on the service now platform, working with the creation of catalog items, indicators, chatbot, integrations, workflows, among other platform resources. Map opportunities and create automation to reduce the number of calls and increase the satisfaction of the bank's internal customer.
Work with development on the service now platform, working with the creation of catalog items, indicators, chatbot, integrations, workflows, among other platform resources. Map opportunities and create automation to reduce the number of calls and increase the satisfaction of the bank's internal customer.
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · MySQL · Scrum · AngularJS · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JavaScript
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · MySQL · Scrum · AngularJS · Desenvolvimento em nuvem · JavaScript
VIP Support Analyst
VIP Support Analyst
Aug 2018 - May 2020 · 1 yr 10 mosAug 2018 to May 2020 · 1 yr 10 mos
São Paulo, BrazilSão Paulo, Brazil
Provide technical support, both incidents and service requests, of micro-computing and telecommunications, ensuring high availability and performance of the platforms and, when necessary, guide and train VIP users; support for Windows operating systems (7,10) and MacOS; Office pack; Printers; Mobile (Apple); Fixed and mobile telephony; Networks, TCP / IP, DNS, Trace and Ping; Microsoft Active Directory.
Provide technical support, both incidents and service requests, of micro-computing and telecommunications, ensuring high availability and performance of the platforms and, when necessary, guide and train VIP users; support for Windows operating systems (7,10) and MacOS; Office pack; Printers; Mobile (Apple); Fixed and mobile telephony; Networks, TCP / IP, DNS, Trace and Ping; Microsoft Active Directory.
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · Scrum · AngularJS · JavaScript
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · Scrum · AngularJS · JavaScript
Wellcare Automação Ltda logo
Wellcare Automação Ltda.
Wellcare Automação Ltda.
4 yrs 1 mo4 yrs 1 mo
São Paulo, BrasilSão Paulo, Brasil
Product Developer
Product Developer
Full-timeFull-time
Jan 2016 - Aug 2018 · 2 yrs 8 mosJan 2016 to Aug 2018 · 2 yrs 8 mos
Monitored the planning and implementation of automation processes. Oversaw the processes of development, execution, and provided guidance to the company’s projects. Developed equipment and applications and prepared implementation techniques to facilitate installation, operation, and maintenance within appropriate technical standards. Provided support to the help desk, developed manuals for training, assembled environments, and conducted homologation tests. Participated in the development of reports and customizations in SQL Server and Oracle databases. Applied training and certification and conducted testing and homologation of integrations with third-party software. Main projects I have worked with:
• Integrated an antenna with tag reading capability into the access control system using a console application in .NET Framework 4.7 and the equipment's SDK. Additionally, I developed a desktop application in WPF for recording tags from the antenna, also utilizing .NET Framework 4.7.
• Developed various types of static and dynamic reports using Stimulsoft, connecting to SQL Server and Oracle Database.
• I specialize in developing integrations between HR systems and the access control system, as well as creating customizations through SQL Server and Oracle databases. For the development of these features, I leverage all the capabilities of the database management system, such as triggers, procedures, linked servers, and views.

Tech skills: .NET Framework, C#, T/SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle Database, Python, TCP/IP.
Monitored the planning and implementation of automation processes. Oversaw the processes of development, execution, and provided guidance to the company’s projects. Developed equipment and applications and prepared implementation techniques to facilitate installation, operation, and maintenance within appropriate technical standards. Provided support to the help desk, developed manuals for training, assembled environments, and conducted homologation tests. Participated in the development of reports and customizations in SQL Server and Oracle databases. Applied training and certification and conducted testing and homologation of integrations with third-party software. Main projects I have worked with: • Integrated an antenna with tag reading capability into the access control system using a console application in .NET Framework 4.7 and the equipment's SDK. Additionally, I developed a desktop application in WPF for recording tags from the antenna, also utilizing .NET Framework 4.7. • Developed various types of static and dynamic reports using Stimulsoft, connecting to SQL Server and Oracle Database. • I specialize in developing integrations between HR systems and the access control system, as well as creating customizations through SQL Server and Oracle databases. For the development of these features, I leverage all the capabilities of the database management system, such as triggers, procedures, linked servers, and views. Tech skills: .NET Framework, C#, T/SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle Database, Python, TCP/IP.
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · MySQL · Scrum · Git · PL/SQL · Definição de requisitos · Oracle Database · C# · .NET Framework
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · MySQL · Scrum · Git · PL/SQL · Definição de requisitos · Oracle Database · C# · .NET Framework
Support Intern
Support Intern
InternshipInternship
Aug 2014 - Dec 2015 · 1 yr 5 mosAug 2014 to Dec 2015 · 1 yr 5 mos
Supervised monitoring of planning and implementation of automation processes; supervised monitoring of processes of development, execution and guidance to the company's projects; development of equipment and it's applications, preparing techniques of implementing in order to allow the installation, operation and maintenance within the appropriate technical standards, support to the help desk, development of manuals used in training, assembly of environments and homologation tests
Supervised monitoring of planning and implementation of automation processes; supervised monitoring of processes of development, execution and guidance to the company's projects; development of equipment and it's applications, preparing techniques of implementing in order to allow the installation, operation and maintenance within the appropriate technical standards, support to the help desk, development of manuals used in training, assembly of environments and homologation tests
Skills: Transact-SQL · Microsoft SQL Server · Microsoft Windows · Microsoft Excel · MySQL